Added article: SignalR with Open AI (#33448)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/tutorials/ai-powered-group-chat/ai-powered-group-chat.md

This tutorial guides you through building a real-time group chat application. Among a group of human collaborators in a chat, there's an AI assistant which has access to the chat history and can be invited to help out by any collaborator when they start the message with `@gpt`. The finished app looks like this. 

:::image type="content" source="./ai-powered-group-chat.jpg" alt-text="user interface for the AI-powered group chat":::

We use OpenAI for generating intelligent, context-aware responses and SignalR for delivering the response to users in a group. You can find the complete code [in this repo](https://github.com/microsoft/SignalR-Samples-AI/tree/main/AIStreaming).

## Dependencies
You can use either Azure OpenAI or OpenAI for this project. Make sure to update the `endpoint` and `key` in `appsettings.json`. `OpenAIExtensions` reads the configuration when the app starts, and the configuration values for `endpoint` and `key` are required to authenticate and use either service.

> # [OpenAI](#tab/open-ai)
> To build this application, you will need the following:
> * ASP.NET Core: To create the web application and host the SignalR hub.
> * [SignalR](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Client): For real-time communication between clients and the server.
> * [OpenAI Client](https://www.nuget.org/packages/OpenAI/2.0.0-beta.10): To interact with OpenAI's API for generating AI responses.
> 
> # [Azure OpenAI](#tab/azure-open-ai)
> To build this application, you will need the following:
> * ASP.NET Core: To create the web application and host the SignalR hub.
> * [SignalR](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Client): For real-time communication between clients and the server.
> * [Azure OpenAI](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.AI.OpenAI/2.0.0-beta.3): Azure.AI.OpenAI
> ---

Reviewer: I believe the added space helps with readability...and not that it really matters, but I've found myself trying to avoid tabs with H1's, you're free to use any heading value so long as the `#tab` bookmark/syntax is in place. Also, removed versions from the packages as stable releases are now available. See https://github.com/microsoft/SignalR-Samples-AI/pull/5, where I just did a PR to upgrade these in the source.

```suggestion
### [OpenAI](#tab/open-ai)

To build this application, you will need the following:
* ASP.NET Core: To create the web application and host the SignalR hub.
* [SignalR](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Client): For real-time communication between clients and the server.
* [OpenAI Client](https://www.nuget.org/packages/OpenAI): To interact with OpenAI's API for generating AI responses.

### [Azure OpenAI](#tab/azure-open-ai)

To build this application, you will need the following:
* ASP.NET Core: To create the web application and host the SignalR hub.
* [SignalR](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Client): For real-time communication between clients and the server.
* [Azure OpenAI](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.AI.OpenAI): `Azure.AI.OpenAI`

---
```

## Implementation

In this section, we'll walk through the key parts of the code that integrate SignalR with OpenAI to create an AI-enhanced group chat experience.

### Data flow 

> :::image type="content" source="./sequence-diagram-ai-powered-group-chat.png" alt-text="sequence diagram for the AI-powered group chat":::

Reviewer: Just an idea, not something that you need to do, but since we still do not have native support from the Learn platform for mermaid diagrams-I've been using mermaid.live and its share feature, that lets you encode/share diagrams. You can build this out, create the share, and embed the share as a comment in the Markdown (which hides it from the end user) but the content developer can use it as a source of truth for future edits, re-exporting it as an image to update the image itself.

For example:

```markdown
<!--

https://mermaid.live/edit#pako:eNp1kk1P4zAQhv_KaK6botLQFnxAyhbt7mFRUQIXlMsQD6lFYmf9wVfV_752UyQQ4NPY7-N3xjPeYmMko0DH_wLrhi8UtZb6WkNcFLzRob9jO-4Hsl41aiDtoQJyUDUblqH7Si-S_lv5P-EOisYroz8zZWKuybYcYx7MZ2KdiLWNaZy35I2FX0F_47ZKbPEaLMPKuN44uPhZH7gKJufnP6AQcG1V27J143kxnpcCVhtuHhyY4EelM2aAS7IP0jwdTPYXJpPnUlQNabiP1dyUfw9OrOUHy7WAK3KO3TtmnaRJqqJkH6x2wI_UBUrvAcsudP5jXatoEmtVzjuQ5GkUJVNswSN5hgIz7Nn2pGQc4jbpNfoN91yjiKGMD6ix1rvIpWlWL7pB4W3gDK0J7QbFPXUu7sIQE7yN_w1hqWLPL8cvsv8pGcZeo9jiM4rl8uh0tjidneXzfDmbH88zfEGRnxxN48rzs3yaLxYn08Uuw1djounx_vbtPk4Jdv8Bo5TJ1A

-->
```

Check out [this link](https://mermaid.live/edit#pako:eNp1kk1P4zAQhv_KaK6botLQFnxAyhbt7mFRUQIXlMsQD6lFYmf9wVfV_752UyQQ4NPY7-N3xjPeYmMko0DH_wLrhi8UtZb6WkNcFLzRob9jO-4Hsl41aiDtoQJyUDUblqH7Si-S_lv5P-EOisYroz8zZWKuybYcYx7MZ2KdiLWNaZy35I2FX0F_47ZKbPEaLMPKuN44uPhZH7gKJufnP6AQcG1V27J143kxnpcCVhtuHhyY4EelM2aAS7IP0jwdTPYXJpPnUlQNabiP1dyUfw9OrOUHy7WAK3KO3TtmnaRJqqJkH6x2wI_UBUrvAcsudP5jXatoEmtVzjuQ5GkUJVNswSN5hgIz7Nn2pGQc4jbpNfoN91yjiKGMD6ix1rvIpWlWL7pB4W3gDK0J7QbFPXUu7sIQE7yN_w1hqWLPL8cvsv8pGcZeo9jiM4rl8uh0tjidneXzfDmbH88zfEGRnxxN48rzs3yaLxYn08Uuw1djounx_vbtPk4Jdv8Bo5TJ1A).

The `GroupHistoryStore` class manages chat history for each group. It stores messages posted by both the users and AI assistants, ensuring that the conversation context is preserved across interactions. This context is crucial for generating coherent AI responses.

```csharp
// Store message generated by AI-assistant in memory
public void UpdateGroupHistoryForAssistant(string groupName, string message)
{
    var chatMessages = _store.GetOrAdd(groupName, _ => InitiateChatMessages());
    chatMessages.Add(new AssistantChatMessage(message));
}
```

```csharp
// Store message generated by users in memory
_history.GetOrAddGroupHistory(groupName, userName, message);
```

### Stream AI responses

The `CompleteChatStreamingAsync()` method streams responses from OpenAI incrementally, which allows the app to send partial responses to the client as they are generated. 

> The code uses a `StringBuilder` to accumulate the AI's response. It checks the length of the buffered content and sends it to the clients when it exceeds a certain threshold (e.g., 20 characters). This approach ensures that users see the AI’s response as it forms, mimicking a human-like typing effect. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code uses a <xref:System.Text.StringBuilder> to accumulate the AI's response. It checks the length of the buffered content and sends it to the clients when it exceeds a certain threshold (e.g., 20 characters). This approach ensures that users see the AI’s response as it forms, mimicking a human-like typing effect. 
```

```csharp
totalCompletion.Append(content);

if (totalCompletion.Length - lastSentTokenLength > 20)
{
    await Clients.Group(groupName).SendAsync(
        "newMessageWithId",
        "ChatGPT",
        id,
        totalCompletion.ToString());

>     lastSentTokenLength = totalCompletion.Length;

Reviewer 2: nit: This is something I don't like about bing chat, it sends the entire message every update. Really it should just append the new content, saves bandwidth and memory usage on the server.

This tutorial guides you through building a real-time group chat application. Among a group of human collaborators in a chat, there's an AI assistant which has access to the chat history and can be invited to help out by any collaborator when they start the message with `@gpt`. The finished app looks like this. 

:::image type="content" source="./ai-powered-group-chat.jpg" alt-text="user interface for the AI-powered group chat":::

We use OpenAI for generating intelligent, context-aware responses and SignalR for delivering the response to users in a group. You can find the complete code [in this repo](https://github.com/microsoft/SignalR-Samples-AI/tree/main/AIStreaming).

## Dependencies

> You can use either Azure OpenAI or OpenAI for this project. Make sure to update the `endpoint` and `key` in `appsetting.json`. `OpenAIExtensions` reads the configuration when the app starts and they are required to authenticate and use either service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use either Azure OpenAI or OpenAI for this project. Make sure to update the `endpoint` and `key` in _appsetting.json_. `OpenAIExtensions` reads the configuration when the app starts and they are required to authenticate and use either service.
```

Reviewer 3: We code fence all filenames and paths on this repo, so you're good on this repo with that @kevinguo-ed.

> You can use either Azure OpenAI or OpenAI for this project. Make sure to update the `endpoint` and `key` in `appsetting.json`. `OpenAIExtensions` reads the configuration when the app starts and they are required to authenticate and use either service.

Reviewer 4: This needs to be

Update the `endpoint` and `key` in `appsetting.json` file as shown in the following code:

After this PR merges, we can move the code to a sample folder and display the `appsetting.json` with the changes highlighted.

# [OpenAI](#tab/open-ai)
To build this application, you will need the following:
* ASP.NET Core: To create the web application and host the SignalR hub.
* [SignalR](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Client): For real-time communication between clients and the server.
* [OpenAI Client](https://www.nuget.org/packages/OpenAI/2.0.0-beta.10): To interact with OpenAI's API for generating AI responses.

# [Azure OpenAI](#tab/azure-open-ai)
To build this application, you will need the following:
* ASP.NET Core: To create the web application and host the SignalR hub.
* [SignalR](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Client): For real-time communication between clients and the server.
* [Azure OpenAI](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.AI.OpenAI/2.0.0-beta.3): Azure.AI.OpenAI
---

## Implementation

In this section, we'll walk through the key parts of the code that integrate SignalR with OpenAI to create an AI-enhanced group chat experience.

### Data flow 

> 

Reviewer: Try including a few sentences describing the image/diagram.

:::image type="content" source="./sequence-diagram-ai-powered-group-chat.png" alt-text="sequence diagram for the AI-powered group chat":::

### SignalR Hub integration

The `GroupChatHub` class manages user connections, message broadcasting, and AI interactions. When a user sends a message starting with `@gpt`, the hub forwards it to OpenAI, which generates a response. The AI's response is streamed back to the group in real-time.
```csharp

> var chatClient = _openAI.GetChatClient(_options.Model);
> await foreach (var completion in chatClient.CompleteChatStreamingAsync(messagesInludeHistory))
> {   
>     // ...
>     // Buffering and sending the AI's response in chunks
>     await Clients.Group(groupName).SendAsync("newMessageWithId", "ChatGPT", id, totalCompletion.ToString());
>     // ...
> }

Reviewer: Docs friendly formatting for readability, and to help prevent horizontal scrolling.

```suggestion
var chatClient = _openAI.GetChatClient(_options.Model);

await foreach (var completion in 
    chatClient.CompleteChatStreamingAsync(messagesInludeHistory))
{   
    // ...
    // Buffering and sending the AI's response in chunks
    await Clients.Group(groupName).SendAsync(
        "newMessageWithId",
        "ChatGPT",
        id,
        totalCompletion.ToString());
    // ...
}
```

```

> ### Maintaining context with history

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Maintain context with history
```

> Every request to [Open AI's Chat Completions API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/chat-completions) is stateless - Open AI doesn't store past interactions. In a chat application, what a user or an assistant has said is important for generating a response that's contextually relevant. We can achieve this by including chat history in every request to the Completions API. 

Reviewer: Prefer mdash, and remove space. Active voice.

```suggestion
Every request to [Open AI's Chat Completions API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/chat-completions) is stateless—Open AI doesn't store past interactions. In a chat app, what a user or an assistant has said is important for generating a response that's contextually relevant. To achieve this, include chat history in every request to the Completions API. 
```

The `GroupHistoryStore` class manages chat history for each group. It stores messages posted by both the users and AI assistants, ensuring that the conversation context is preserved across interactions. This context is crucial for generating coherent AI responses.

```csharp
// Store message generated by AI-assistant in memory
public void UpdateGroupHistoryForAssistant(string groupName, string message)
{
    var chatMessages = _store.GetOrAdd(groupName, _ => InitiateChatMessages());
    chatMessages.Add(new AssistantChatMessage(message));
}
```

> 

Reviewer: You should consider having some text to describe the following bit of code, or perhaps the preceding bits. As it stands now, two new code blocks without interleaving text makes it difficult to understand what exactly is being discussed in each. Also, comments in code are not localized, something to be aware of (it's better to have that in the article around the code).

```csharp
// Store message generated by users in memory
_history.GetOrAddGroupHistory(groupName, userName, message);
```

> ### Streaming AI responses

Reviewer: Avoid gerunds.

```suggestion
### Stream AI responses
```

> The `CompleteChatStreamingAsync()` method streams responses from OpenAI incrementally, which allows the application to send partial responses to the client as they are generated. 

Reviewer: Inconsistent usages of "OpenAI" vs "Open AI". Not sure which one is correct, but I assume only one is correct.
```suggestion
The `CompleteChatStreamingAsync()` method streams responses from OpenAI incrementally, which allows the app to send partial responses to the client as they are generated. 
```

Reviewer 4: [OpenAPI](https://www.openapis.org/)

The code uses a `StringBuilder` to accumulate the AI's response. It checks the length of the buffered content and sends it to the clients when it exceeds a certain threshold (e.g., 20 characters). This approach ensures that users see the AI’s response as it forms, mimicking a human-like typing effect. 
```csharp

> totalCompletion.Append(content);
> if (totalCompletion.Length - lastSentTokenLength > 20)
> {
>     await Clients.Group(groupName).SendAsync("newMessageWithId", "ChatGPT", id, totalCompletion.ToString());
>     lastSentTokenLength = totalCompletion.Length;
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
totalCompletion.Append(content);

if (totalCompletion.Length - lastSentTokenLength > 20)
{
    await Clients.Group(groupName).SendAsync(
        "newMessageWithId",
        "ChatGPT",
        id,
        totalCompletion.ToString());

    lastSentTokenLength = totalCompletion.Length;
}
```

``` 

## Explore further

This project opens up exciting possibilities for further enhancement:

> 1. **Advanced AI features**: Leverage other OpenAI capabilities like sentiment analysis, translation, or summarization. 
> 2. **Incorporating multiple AI agents**: You can introduce multiple AI agents with distinct roles or expertise areas within the same chat. For example, one agent might focus on text generation, the other provides image or audio generation. This can create a richer and more dynamic user experience where different AI agents interact seamlessly with users and each other.
> 3. **Share chat history between server instances**: Implement a database layer to persist chat history across sessions, allowing conversations to resume even after a disconnect. Beyond SQL or NO SQL based solutions, you can also explore using a caching service like Redis. It can significantly improve performance by storing frequently accessed data, such as chat history or AI responses, in memory. This reduces latency and offloads database operations, leading to faster response times, particularly in high-traffic scenarios. 
> 4. **Leveraging Azure SignalR Service**: [Azure SignalR Service](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-signalr/signalr-overview) provides scalable and reliable real-time messaging for your application. By offloading the SignalR backplane to Azure, you can scale out the chat application easily to support thousands of concurrent users across multiple servers. Azure SignalR also simplifies management and provides built-in features like automatic reconnections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Advanced AI features**: Leverage other OpenAI capabilities like sentiment analysis, translation, or summarization. 
1. **Incorporating multiple AI agents**: You can introduce multiple AI agents with distinct roles or expertise areas within the same chat. For example, one agent might focus on text generation, the other provides image or audio generation. This can create a richer and more dynamic user experience where different AI agents interact seamlessly with users and each other.
1. **Share chat history between server instances**: Implement a database layer to persist chat history across sessions, allowing conversations to resume even after a disconnect. Beyond SQL or NO SQL based solutions, you can also explore using a caching service like Redis. It can significantly improve performance by storing frequently accessed data, such as chat history or AI responses, in memory. This reduces latency and offloads database operations, leading to faster response times, particularly in high-traffic scenarios. 
1. **Leveraging Azure SignalR Service**: [Azure SignalR Service](/azure/azure-signalr/signalr-overview) provides scalable and reliable real-time messaging for your application. By offloading the SignalR backplane to Azure, you can scale out the chat application easily to support thousands of concurrent users across multiple servers. Azure SignalR also simplifies management and provides built-in features like automatic reconnections.
```

Reviewer 5: Pulling in all suggestions that make sense for where this is at the moment into commits and then will pull all commits into a new PR to get this finished.
